Reviewed the Creating and starting workspaces section. (#646)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-6/user-guide/creating-starting-workspaces.adoc

---

> title: "Workspace management"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Managing workspaces"
```

[id="creating-workspaces"]
== Creating workspaces

Use the link:stacks.html[stacks] in the *Dashboard* to create a workspace. Images and configuration in these stacks are certified both for Docker and OpenShift. These stacks are used in daily functional testing.

> === Creating a workspace from stacks in the Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Creating a workspace from stacks in the dashboard
```

To create a workspace from stacks in the *Dashboard*, take the following steps:

> . In the *Dashboard*, from the left panel, click *Stacks*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Dashboard*, in the left panel, click *Stacks*.
```

> . Click the *Duplicate stack* icon for the stack that you want to create a clone of. The <stack-name> page opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Duplicate stack* icon for the stack that you want to create a clone of. A page titled after the selected stack opens.
```

. Edit the fields that you want to edit.

. Click *Save*.

image::workspaces/ready_to_go_stacks.gif[]

=== Duplicating an existing stack

Create a stack and then use the resulting stack to create a workspace.

To create a copy of an existing stack, take the following steps:

> . In the *Dashboard*, from the left panel, click *Stacks*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Dashboard*, in the left panel, click *Stacks*.
```

. Click the *Duplicate stack* icon for the stack that you want to clone.

. Edit the *Name* field.

. In the *Machines* field, edit the *Source* field.

. Click *Save*. The *Stack is successfully updated* message confirms that the stack is updated.

> . On the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces* > *Add Workspace*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces* > *Add Workspace*.
```

. In the *SELECT STACK* section, scroll through the list to locate the stack that you created in the preceding steps. 

> . Click *Create* to create the workspace based on this stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Create* to create a workspace based on this stack.
```

image::workspaces/duplicate_stack.gif[]

=== Creating a custom stack from a custom recipe

Author a custom link:recipes.html[recipe] and then create a stack. Use the resulting stack to create a workspace.

To create a custom stack from a custom recipe, take the following steps:

> . On the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces* > *Add Workspace*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Dashboard*, click *Workspaces* > *Add Workspace*.
```

. From the *SELECT STACK* field, select the required stack.

. Click *Add Stack*.

. In the *Create Stack* dialog box, click *Yes* to confirm that you want to create the stack from a recipe. 

> . In the *Build stack from recipe* window, type the recipe name from which you want to build this stack (example: *FROM: eclipse/new-stack*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Build stack from recipe* window, type the recipe name from which you want to build this stack (example: `FROM: eclipse/new-stack`).
```

. Click *Save*.

image::workspaces/custom_recipe_stack.gif[]

[id="starting-workspaces"]
== Starting workspaces

You can start a workspace in one of the following ways:

* The workspace starts automatically after it is created in the user's *Dashboard*.

* In the user's *Dashboard*, use the *Run* or *Open* buttons in the *Workspace Details* view.

* Click a workspace name from the recent workspaces displayed in the left panel.

* Use the REST API. For more information about the REST API, see link:rest-api.html[REST API].

The workspace may take time to start depending on factors like network conditions, container image availability, and configured installers attempting to install additional tools and software in the runtime. Track the progress of the workspace start operation in the *Workspace Start* tab. The tabs for each machine in the workspace environment stream logs from the installers (terminal, `exec` agent, `ws` agent, and language servers if any).

[id="managing-a-workspace"]
== Managing a workspace

After a workspace is created or started, you can modify it by adding projects, installers, environment variables, and volumes. 

[IMPORTANT]
====

> To edit a raw workspace configuration, take a backup of the working configuration to avoid breaking your workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit a raw workspace configuration, back up the working configuration to avoid breaking your workspace. 
```

====

> If you change the configuration of a running workspace and save it, the workspace is restarted. To learn more about workspace configuration, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the configuration of a running workspace and saving it restarts the workspace. To learn more about workspace configuration, see:
```

[id="creating-workspaces"]
== Creating workspaces

> Use the ready-to-go link:stacks.html[stacks] in the user's *Dashboard* to create a workspace. Images and configuration in these stacks are certified both for Docker and OpenShift. These stacks are used in daily functional testing.

Reviewer 2: "ready-to-go" feels like slang to me.

Reviewer 3: +1
How about adding a line here saying:
You can create workspaces using stacks as follows:

> === Creating a workspace from ready-to-go stacks

Reviewer 3: Wonder if it makes sense to have instructions/steps in addition to these gifs.

Author: Added. Thanks :)

image::workspaces/ready_to_go_stacks.gif[]

=== Duplicating an existing stack

Create a stack and then use the resulting stack to create a workspace.

image::workspaces/duplicate_stack.gif[]

=== Creating a custom stack from a custom recipe

Author a custom link:recipes.html[recipe] and then create a stack. Use the resulting stack to create a workspace.

image::workspaces/custom_recipe_stack.gif[]

[id="starting-workspaces"]
== Starting workspaces

You can start a workspace in one of the following ways:

* The workspace starts automatically after it is created in the user's *Dashboard*.

* In the user's *Dashboard*, use the *Run* or *Open* buttons in the *Workspace Details* view.

* Click a workspace name from the recent workspaces displayed in the left panel.

* Use the REST API. For more information about the REST API, see link:rest-api.html[REST API].

> The workspace may take time to start depending on factors like network conditions, Docker image availability, configured installers attempting to install additional tools and software in the runtime. Track the progress of the workspace start operation in the *Workspace Start* tab. The tabs for each machine in the workspace environment, stream logs from the installers (terminal, exec agent, ws agent, language servers if any).

Reviewer 2: Should "Docker image" be "container image"?

The last item in the list ("configured installers...") should have a conjunction.

No comma is needed in this sentence: "The tabs for each machine in the workspace environment stream logs from the installers (...)."

Should "exec" and "ws" be stylized?

Reviewer 3: Also, conjunction before 'language servers'

[id="managing-a-workspace"]
== Managing a workspace

> After a workspace is created or started, you can modify it by adding projects, installers, environment variables, or volumes. 

Reviewer 2: Seems like "and" is more appropriate than "or" here.

[IMPORTANT]
====
To edit a raw workspace configuration, take a backup of the working configuration to avoid breaking your workspace. 
====

If you change the configuration of a running workspace and save it, the workspace is restarted. To learn more about workspace configuration, see:

> 

Reviewer 3: Having the links the way it is in the original on line 48 seems more minimalistic to me.
